---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am currently in my second year as a Master's student in Computer Science and Technology, with research interests in **machine learning, data mining, and distributed systems**. I am looking forward to obtaining **internship** opportunities or pursuing a **doctoral degree** in related research fields.

Education
------
- M.S in Computer Science and Technology, 2022-Present, **Ocean University of China**
- B.S in Computer Science and Technology, 2018-2022, **Ocean University of China**

Skills
------
- **Language**: Modern C/C++, Python, Java, Go
- **Development**: Network Programming, Parallel Programming, Design Pattern; Familiar with Linux, Git
- **Theory**: Data Structure and Algorithm, Principles of Computer Composition, Computer Networks, Operating Systems
- **Machine Learning**: Optimization Theory, Probability Theory, Linear Algebra, Higher Mathematics; Understand commonly used models like MLP, RNN, CNN, Transformer, etc; Understand commonly used techniques like Normalization, Optimization, etc
- **Distributed System**: Understand the concepts and algorithms of distributed system like Availability, Consistency, Fault Tolerance, etc; Understand consensus algorithm like Paxos, Raft, etc; Understand basic distributed system like GFS, MapReduce, BigTable
- **English**: CET-6 485

Presentation
------
\[1\] LIN. Y, “HyFish: Hydrological Factor Fusion for Prediction of Fishing Effort Distribution with VMS dataset”. Frontiers in Marine Science (2024) SCI 1 (under review)

\[2\] LIN. Y, “HyFormer: Hydrological Factor Fusion Transformer for Vessel Trajectory Prediction with VMS dataset”. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems (2024) SCI 1 (under review)

Teaching Assistant Experience
------
- Fall 2023: Computer Networks
- Fall 2022: Computer Networks

Internship Experience
------
**3D Games Based on COCOS Game Engine**, 2022/05-2022/09, Shenzhen Shangmang Technology Co., Ltd

- Program framework based on Cocos
- Using TS for game program development
- Using Java to access third-party advertising SDKs

Research Experience
------
**Vessel Trajectory Prediction**, 2023/07-Present, Research Leader

- Preprocessing of raw data, such as data deduplication, noise removal, static simplification, etc
- Visualized trajectory data to analyze the trajectory behavior of vessels in the sea area.
- Conducted correlation analysis between hydrological factors and vessel behavior, and analyze the impact of hydrological factors on vessel behavior.
- Designed a model that utilizes multi-source data and data fusion to predict the future trajectory of vessels.
- Adjusting hyperparameters and trained the model.

**Fishing Effort Distribution Prediction**, 2022/11-Present, Research Member

- Preprocessing of raw data, Using statistical methods to map data into grids.
- Visualized fishing effort distribution and identified environmental factors that affect it.
- Designed a module that extracts the spatial feature of the sea areas.
- Trained the model of baseline.

**VMS Dataset Toolkit**, 2023/05-Present, Research Leader

- Integrate visualization based on VMS data to achieve multiple trajectory drawing schemes and heat map drawing.
- Integrate multiple data preprocessing schemes, align timestamps, unify program interfaces, and provide multiple data partitioning schemes, such as by voyage, vessel ID, and time.
- Implement GIF animation generation, generate multiple frames of images and output GIF animations for easing data analysis.

Programs Experience
------
**[LLM based chatbot application](https://github.com/Syan-Lin/CyberWaifu)**, 2023/04-2023/06, 867 stars

- Based on LangChain, go-cqhttp and vits
- Developed the thought chain of ChatGPT and Claude, enable LLM to execute some real actions like save file, send pictures to user, etc
- Integrated google search in LLM, enable LLM to search
- Linked LLM to chatbot, enable LLM to send QQ message to user
- Integrated Vits in LLM, generates voice from the text generated by LLM, multiple languages and voices are supported

**[Linux network library: esynet](https://github.com/Syan-Lin/esynet)**, 2022/12-2023/03

A high-performance lightweight C++ linux network library

- Based on Linux network API
- Use poll/epoll to build the underlying interfaces, which can handle concurrent connections
- Use Reactor model to build the system, and use thread pool to handle more concurrent tasks
- Use asynchronous logging for logging

**[Json Parser: tiny-json](https://github.com/Syan-Lin/Tiny-JSON)**, 2022/08-2022/10

A lightweight C++ Json parser library

- Lightweight, head file only needed, no third party dependency
- Simplest possible interface and usage
- Comprehensive testing
- High-performance, with fast parsing speed